Critical Features of a Successful Web Application

With so many benefits, it’s worth exploring the development of enterprise web applications. Now, let’s check some of the most significant elements that you must-have in your web app.

1. Mobile-First Interface

Enterprise web apps require a shift from conventional web design thinking. Why? Users today rely more on smartphones and tablets.
According to a survey, only 27% of respondents used a laptop or desktop to connect to the internet away from work. However, 56% used a smartphone to access the internet. It is quite evident that your customers are comfortable using mobile.
You need to incorporate trending UI design to your web apps. Developers may consider aligning components with a mobile device’s unique features and make the web app responsive.
Basically, your app’s display should automatically adjust to whatever screen users are accessing it on. Developers should also consider working on loading apps quickly on any device because users don’t want to wait for too long to see the page.

2. Social Integration 

Imagine you are trying to complete the registration process as a new user to an app. What happens if the registration process is time-consuming? You’re right! You would be disappointed or frustrated.
What’s the solution? You could consider using social media platforms to streamline the registration process. Social integration allows users to log in quickly with their preferred social media account. There won’t be any lengthy forms to fill up and users would enjoy the benefits of signing up as customers.
You need to think of integrations with your users’ favorite social networks. The combinations lead to better engagement of your enterprise web applications.
Social integration can offer valuable ways for users to interact with your brand. Consumers can share their wishlist, reviews, and orders through social networks. The best part—all such interactions would ultimately lead to higher brand visibility.

3. Reporting & Analytics 

One of the best features of an enterprise web application is analytics. With integrated analytics, you can get critical insights on user behavior patterns and the overall performance of your web app. You can now keep track of all such data and optimize your web apps for higher engagement and better conversion.
As a business owner, you would want your business to evolve. The way to do it is through curating information and working on the insights. You can also plot down trends and make the changes you need to evolve your business.
web app features

4. Web Push Notification

When you are looking at engaging your consumers, the web push notification can be a handy feature. Push notifications can offer the most personal channel when it comes to connecting with customers in real-time.
It’s quite simple—a one-click opt-in directly from the web apps, and you can send a targeted push message to users’ devices based on location or behavior. What’s more exciting? Such notifications feel just like those from a native app, even if the browser is not running currently.
According to case studies by Google, web push messages have delivered considerably higher engagement and retention from push-enabled users. Now, that’s a feature to integrate into your apps.

5. Security

*What’s one of the most critical priorities for your business? S***ecurity*, of course*. It is significant to have control over your web app’s security.
You would need to serve your web app through HTTPS with a security certificate. Developers must ensure that online users have a secure connection to your web applications and work towards safeguarding data transfer between them and the server.
It is pertinent that you use HTTPS, which marks your site as secure. Customers can rest assured of safe payment transactions, secure user accounts, and private communications and identity.
The feature can help to build trust among your customers and improve sales and conversions. Wait, there’s more! The sites that use HTTPS also receive a substantial boost in search rankings by Google.

6. Live Chat

Here’s another feature to look out for in any customer-centric business—offering live chat. The best way to stay connected with customers is to understand their pain points.
You must also help users resolve issues effectively. Imagine it’s such a relief as a customer to get viable solutions. The promptness in offering solutions can help to build valuable customer relationships.
“Live chat provides a simple way for (e) storeowners to relate to their customers, both by answering their questions and taking the time to learn more about the people who are purchasing your goods or services,” says Ben Congleton, CEO of Olark live chat.

7. Web Payments

You may need to incorporate online payment in your web app so customers can pay for products or services in a hassle-free way. It would be great to have a one-step checkout. You could combine shipping, billing information, and payment methods into one step. The standard helps with quick and seamless payment processing that allows consumers to pay quickly through its native UI.
The new API by Google – Payment request promises to improve the payment experience for web users. As business owners, you could plan to support various payment systems. The payment requests make it easy to integrate any type of payment method to fit user preference and business demand.

8. Search Engine Optimization

Web applications are not search-engine-friendly by default. You would need to overcome numerous technical challenges in making sure that web apps are discoverable. You may come across issues that may impact your web apps’ SEO performance.
What can you do? You would need to optimize your SEO correctly. Enterprise web applications can facilitate visibility and customer acquisition. Here are some of the SEO best practices:
    To avoid duplication provide canonical tag when serving content from various online sources
    Make use of Fetch as Google tool to test how Google indexes your web applications
    Consider using Schema.org metadata that matches your page content to improve its appearance in search engines
    Make sure the page doesn’t use fragmented identifiers as Google will ignore them

9. User Rights Management

Take a typical scenario—different people would use your web application, and for numerous reasons.
In such situations, it is best to maintain a robust user right management system within your application. The feature can help to limit who can see what information. With the feature, you can also combat information overload effectively.

10. Document Management System

Documents typically serve purposes that are beyond information feedback loops. It is critical for your business that you keep track of your documents and keep them organized.
Documents are not just valuable sources of information, but they also have legal significance. You may consider securing your documents for the long-term into the app with an intelligent document management system.
You know that adage—“The only thing that’s constant is change.” As business owners, you need to keep looking at changing trends, changing patterns, and needs.
When you look at trending features and incorporate them into your app, you would have a niche app that can help your business grow beyond measure.

Critical Features of a Successful Web Application
1. Mobile-First Interface
2. Social Integration
3. Reporting & Analytics
4. Web Push Notification
5. Security
6. Live Chat
7. Web Payments
8. Search Engine Optimization
9. User Rights Management
10. Document Management System 


Enterprise Web Application Development: Key Trending Features
  1. Artificial Intelligence and Bots
  2. Internet of Things (IoT)
  3. Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) - speed
  4. Single Page Application (SPA)
  5. Voice Search Optimization
  6. Motion UI - can easily integrate UI/UX features with CSS, HTML, and JavaScript, and work towards achieving highly responsive apps.
  7. Responsive Web Design (RWD)
  